---
title: "Codebook"
author: "Joe Phaneuf"
date: "11/22/2014"
output: html_document
---
#About
Description of variables for the tidy dataset generated by:
run_analysis.R
On the following dataset:
https://d396qusza40orc.cloudfront.net/getdata%2Fprojectfiles%2FUCI%20HAR%20Dataset.zip
see README.MD for implementation details


#Variable Description
The variables in this set are "subject","activity", and "signal"
* subject denotes the id number of a participant (1 of 30)
* activity denotes the activity undergone at time of sample (walking, laying down etc...)
* signal is a compound variable containing the following elements in order:

*analysis domain, signal cause, device, function, axis*
where analysis domain refers to time domain or frequency domain analysis
signal cause refers to whether signal source is due to body movement or gravity (grav)
device refers to either the accelerometer (Acc) or the Gyroscope (Gyro)
function refers to either a mean or a standard deviation (Std)
and axis refers to the what axis the measurement was taken on, (X,Y,Z or Mag (magnitude of X,Y,Z))
##Examples

##Value
The value of a record is the mean of all entries from the original data set for a given participant,activity, and signal.

##Original Experiment Description

The experiments have been carried out with a group of 30 volunteers within an age bracket of 19-48 years. Each person performed six activities (WALKING, WALKING_UPSTAIRS, WALKING_DOWNSTAIRS, SITTING, STANDING, LAYING) wearing a smartphone (Samsung Galaxy S II) on the waist. Using its embedded accelerometer and gyroscope, we captured 3-axial linear acceleration and 3-axial angular velocity at a constant rate of 50Hz. The experiments have been video-recorded to label the data manually. The obtained dataset has been randomly partitioned into two sets, where 70% of the volunteers was selected for generating the training data and 30% the test data.

The sensor signals (accelerometer and gyroscope) were pre-processed by applying noise filters and then sampled in fixed-width sliding windows of 2.56 sec and 50% overlap (128 readings/window). The sensor acceleration signal, which has gravitational and body motion components, was separated using a Butterworth low-pass filter into body acceleration and gravity. The gravitational force is assumed to have only low frequency components, therefore a filter with 0.3 Hz cutoff frequency was used. From each window, a vector of features was obtained by calculating variables from the time and frequency domain.


License:
========
Use of this dataset in publications must be acknowledged by referencing the following publication [1] 

[1] Davide Anguita, Alessandro Ghio, Luca Oneto, Xavier Parra and Jorge L. Reyes-Ortiz. Human Activity Recognition on Smartphones using a Multiclass Hardware-Friendly Support Vector Machine. International Workshop of Ambient Assisted Living (IWAAL 2012). Vitoria-Gasteiz, Spain. Dec 2012

This dataset is distributed AS-IS and no responsibility implied or explicit can be addressed to the authors or their institutions for its use or misuse. Any commercial use is prohibited.

Jorge L. Reyes-Ortiz, Alessandro Ghio, Luca Oneto, Davide Anguita. November 2012.